ReadMe.md, before:

# Django Graphene (GraphQL) API

This is simple application which provided CURD operation. The application has simple
data flow where authenticated users can create their availabilities slots and 
other users can book these slots. Other uses can also see all the bookings of a user. 
CURD ops are provided on authenticated availability endpoint using `JWT` authentication
mechanism.

**Project Requirements:**

1. Users can create a schedule of available dates and times and select their desired meeting intervals (15 min / 30 min / 45 min) 
2. allow the user to do CRUD operations ( create / read / update / delete ) on his available schedule
3. Non-users can view all available timings for a specific user
4. Non-users can reserve a specific time by providing their full name and email for the meeting
5. Non-user can’t reserve a time that has been already reserved 

**How to run the API**

I have used `GraphiQL` django app for running the application & testing the quries. GraphiQL is an in-browser tool for writing, validating, and
testing GraphQL queries. Follow the step by step guide below to run & test the GraphQL quries. I have also provided demo quries with their responses below.


<img width="1371" alt="Screen Shot 2021-12-24 at 3 25 55 AM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4252738/147296260-1f2f256b-3cb7-4fe7-88b3-bc6121cfe7f5.png">

### Getting Started 
This project is created and tested with `Python 3.8.10`

#### Create & activate virtual environment.
Create and activate python3.8 virtual env. 
* `python3 -m venv ./venv`

* `source venv/bin/activate`

#### Setup devstack
The next step is to set up the devstack by running the following `make` command. If the `make` command fails for you
try the alternative. 

* `make setup`

**OR**
* `pip install -r requirements.txt`
* `python manage.py migrate`
* `python manage.py loaddata ./scheduler/meeting_scheduler/factories/users.json`

#### Create superuser 
* `python manage.py createsuperuser`

#### Run the server.  
* `make run` **OR** `python manage.py runserver`


#### Run unit tests. 
`make test` **OR** `pytest`

### Available GraphQL Endpoints
1. User endpoints
   1. `api/graphql:login` (mutation) Login & obtain token for the user
   2. `api/graphql:verify_token` (mutation): Obtain JSON web token for given user.
2. Availability endpoints
   1. `api/graphql:create_availability` Create Availability (mutation)
   2. `api/graphql:availabilities` Read All (your*) availabilities (query)
   3. `api/graphql:availability` Read (your*) one availability (query)
   4. `api/graphql:delete_availability` Delete availability (mutation)
   5. `api/graphql:update_availability` Update (your*) availability (mutation)
3. Booking endpoints
   1. `api/graphql:bookings_by_user` Read bookings of users given their username
   2. `api/graphql:create_booking` Create booking for users
      1. Validation for overlapping booking
      2. Validation for availability exists
      3. Validation for booking already exists

#### 1. Login
* http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/graphql 

This endpoint provides basic authentication for the app. Login mutation 
is required for fetching the auth token and making API calls for private views such as creating 
availabilities. 
#### Login Example
```yaml
mutation {
  login(username:"admin", password:"admin"){
    success,
    errors,
    token,
    user {
      username
    }
  }
}
```
#### Success response 
```yaml
{
  "data": {
    "login": {
      "success": true,
      "errors": null,
      "token": "eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1QiLCJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9.eyJ1c2VybmFtZSI6ImFkbWluIiwiZXhwIjoxNjQwMjkxNzgzLCJvcmlnSWF0IjoxNjQwMjkxNDgzfQ.z5fTy-B8rdUp-g58rPKejw9FYt5pWubPCwQZMR5tiU8",
      "user": {
        "username": "admin"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

#### 2. Verify logged in user auth token
* http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/graphql

```yaml
mutation{
  verifyToken(token:"token") {
    success
    errors
  }
}
```

#### 3. Create availability **
* http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/graphql

The `JWT` token will be used to create new availability. 
The token should be passed in the request header Authorization. 

```yaml
 mutation {
  createAvailability(
    availabilityFrom:"2022-08-17T09:00:00", 
    availabilityTo:"2022-08-17T05:00:00", 
    timeIntervalMints:15
  ){
    success,
    availability{
      id,
    }
  }
}
```
#### Success response
```yaml
{
  "data": {
    "createAvailability": {
      "success": true,
      "availability": {
        "id": "2"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

#### Read all availabilities **
```yaml
query{
  availabilities {
    id
    fromTime,
    toTime,
    intervalMints
  }
}
```
#### Success response
```yaml
{
  "data": {
    "availabilities": [
      {
        "id": "1",
        "fromTime": "2022-08-16T09:00:00+00:00",
        "toTime": "2022-08-16T05:00:00+00:00",
        "intervalMints": "Fifteen (15) mints"
      },
      {
        "id": "2",
        "fromTime": "2022-08-17T09:00:00+00:00",
        "toTime": "2022-08-17T05:00:00+00:00",
        "intervalMints": "Fifteen (15) mints"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

#### Read one availability ** 
```yaml
query{
  availability(id:2){
    id,
    fromTime
    toTime
    intervalMints
  }
}
```
#### Success response
```yaml
{
  "data": {
    "availability": {
      "id": "2",
      "fromTime": "2022-08-17T09:00:00+00:00",
      "toTime": "2022-08-17T05:00:00+00:00",
      "intervalMints": "Fifteen (15) mints"
    }
  }
}
```
#### Delete one availability ** 
```yaml
mutation {
  deleteAvailability(id:2) {
    success
  }
}
```
#### Success response
```yaml
{
  "data": {
    "deleteAvailability": {
      "success": true
    }
  }
}
```

#### Update one availability **
```yaml
mutation {
  updateAvailability(id:1, availabilityFrom:"2021-01-14T09:00:00", availabilityTo: "2021-01-14T05:00:00"){
    availability{
      id
      fromTime
      toTime
      intervalMints
    }
    success,
  }
}
```
#### Success response
```yaml
{
  "data": {
    "updateAvailability": {
      "availability": {
        "id": "1",
        "fromTime": "2021-01-14T09:00:00",
        "toTime": "2021-01-14T05:00:00",
        "intervalMints": "Fifteen (15) mints"
      },
      "success": true
    }
  }
}
```

#### 4. Booking Endpoint
* http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/graphql

The booking queries can be used **without** login or providing `JWT` auth token. These quries
provide reading and booking user's availabilities. 

#### Create booking
```yaml
mutation{
  createBooking(
    email: "a@a.com"
    fullName:"Demo",
    username: "admin",
    targetDate:"2021-12-23", 
    targetTime: "11:30"
    totalTime: 15,
  ){
    success,
    booking {
      id
    }
  }
}
```
#### Error no available slots
```yaml
{
  "errors": [
    {
      "message": "admin has no availability in this slot.",
      "locations": [
        {
          "line": 8,
          "column": 3
        }
      ],
      "path": [
        "createBooking"
      ]
    }
  ],
  "data": {
    "createBooking": null
  }
}
```
#### Error overlapping booking

<img width="1223" alt="Screen Shot 2021-12-24 at 3 27 06 AM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4252738/147296373-e24ae08f-a2d6-411e-8206-1e6a0e43927f.png">

```yaml
{
  "errors": [
    {
      "message": "The slot is overlapping with other bookings.",
      "locations": [
        {
          "line": 62,
          "column": 3
        }
      ],
      "path": [
        "createBooking"
      ]
    }
  ],
  "data": {
    "createBooking": null
  }
}
```
#### Success response
```yaml
{
  "data": {
    "createBooking": {
      "success": true,
      "booking": {
        "id": "1"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

#### Read appointments of specific users.
```yaml
query {
  bookingsByUser(username:"admin") {
    id
    fullName
    email
    date
    startTime
    endTime
    totalTime
  }
}

```
#### Success response
```yaml
{
  "data": {
    "bookingsByUser": [
      {
        "id": "1",
        "fullName": "Demo",
        "email": "a@a.com",
        "date": "2021-01-14",
        "startTime": "11:30:00",
        "endTime": "11:45:00"
        "totalTime": 15,
      }
    ]
  }
}
```


******
####** Protected by JWT authentication token which should be provided in the request header.

Commit message:

refactor: Sevaral refactoring in the app. 1. Use Django sites. 2. Use django site model in the admin 3. Update docs.

ReadMe.md, after:

# Schedule Booking GraphQL API

Schedule Booking app is powered by a GraphQL API. GraphQL is a query language that allows clients to talk to an API server. Unlike REST, it gives the client control over how much or how little data they want to request about each object and allows relations within the object graph to be traversed easily.

To learn more about GraphQL language and its concepts, see the official [GraphQL website](https://graphql.org/).

The API endpoint is available at `/graphql/` and requires queries to be submitted using HTTP `POST` method and the `application/json` content type.

The API provides simple CURD operation. The application has simple data flow where 
authenticated users can create their availabilities slots and other users can 
book these slots. Other uses can also see all the bookings of a user. 
CURD operations are provided on authenticated availability endpoint using `JWT` authentication
mechanism. API provides both types of operations:

* Public (search & book slots in availability.)
* Private (create/update/delete availabilities)


**Project Requirements:**

1. Users can create a schedule of available dates and times and select their desired meeting intervals (15 min / 30 min / 45 min) 
2. allow the user to do CRUD operations ( create / read / update / delete ) on his available schedule
3. Non-users can view all available timings for a specific user
4. Non-users can reserve a specific time by providing their full name and email for the meeting
5. Non-user can’t reserve a time that has been already reserved 

**How to run the API**

I have used `GraphiQL` django app for running the application & testing the quries. GraphiQL is an in-browser tool for writing, validating, and
testing GraphQL queries. Follow the step by step guide below to run & test the GraphQL quries. I have also provided demo quries with their responses below.


<img width="1371" alt="Screen Shot 2021-12-24 at 3 25 55 AM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4252738/147296260-1f2f256b-3cb7-4fe7-88b3-bc6121cfe7f5.png">

### Development Setup 
This project is created and tested with `Python 3.8.10`

#### Create & activate virtual environment.
Create and activate python3.8 virtual env. 
* `python3 -m venv ./venv`

* `source venv/bin/activate`

#### Setup devstack
The next step is to set up the devstack by running the following `make` command. If the `make` command fails for you
try the alternative. 

* `make setup`

**OR**
* `pip install -r requirements.txt`
* `python manage.py migrate`
* `python manage.py loaddata ./scheduler/meeting_scheduler/factories/users.json`

#### Create superuser 
* `python manage.py createsuperuser`

#### Run the server.  
* `make run` **OR** `python manage.py runserver`


#### Run unit tests. 
`make test` **OR** `pytest`

### Available GraphQL Endpoints
1. User endpoints
   1. `api/graphql:login` (mutation) Login & obtain token for the user
   2. `api/graphql:verify_token` (mutation): Obtain JSON web token for given user.
2. Availability endpoints
   1. `api/graphql:create_availability` Create Availability (mutation)
   2. `api/graphql:availabilities` Read All (your*) availabilities (query)
   3. `api/graphql:availability` Read (your*) one availability (query)
   4. `api/graphql:delete_availability` Delete availability (mutation)
   5. `api/graphql:update_availability` Update (your*) availability (mutation)
3. Booking endpoints
   1. `api/graphql:bookings_by_user` Read bookings of users given their username
   2. `api/graphql:create_booking` Create booking for users
      1. Validation for overlapping booking
      2. Validation for availability exists
      3. Validation for booking already exists

#### 1. Login
* http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/graphql 

This endpoint provides basic authentication for the app. Login mutation 
is required for fetching the auth token and making API calls for private views such as creating 
availabilities. 
#### Login Example
```yaml
mutation {
  login(username:"admin", password:"admin"){
    success,
    errors,
    token,
    user {
      username
    }
  }
}
```
#### Success response 
```yaml
{
  "data": {
    "login": {
      "success": true,
      "errors": null,
      "token": "eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1QiLCJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9.eyJ1c2VybmFtZSI6ImFkbWluIiwiZXhwIjoxNjQwMjkxNzgzLCJvcmlnSWF0IjoxNjQwMjkxNDgzfQ.z5fTy-B8rdUp-g58rPKejw9FYt5pWubPCwQZMR5tiU8",
      "user": {
        "username": "admin"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

#### 2. Verify logged in user auth token
* http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/graphql

```yaml
mutation{
  verifyToken(token:"token") {
    success
    errors
  }
}
```

#### 3. Create availability **
* http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/graphql

The `JWT` token will be used to create new availability. 
The token should be passed in the request header Authorization. 

```yaml
 mutation {
  createAvailability(
    availabilityFrom:"2022-08-17T09:00:00", 
    availabilityTo:"2022-08-17T05:00:00", 
    timeIntervalMints:15
  ){
    success,
    availability{
      id,
    }
  }
}
```
#### Success response
```yaml
{
  "data": {
    "createAvailability": {
      "success": true,
      "availability": {
        "id": "2"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

#### Read all availabilities **
```yaml
query{
  availabilities {
    id
    fromTime,
    toTime,
    intervalMints
  }
}
```
#### Success response
```yaml
{
  "data": {
    "availabilities": [
      {
        "id": "1",
        "fromTime": "2022-08-16T09:00:00+00:00",
        "toTime": "2022-08-16T05:00:00+00:00",
        "intervalMints": "Fifteen (15) mints"
      },
      {
        "id": "2",
        "fromTime": "2022-08-17T09:00:00+00:00",
        "toTime": "2022-08-17T05:00:00+00:00",
        "intervalMints": "Fifteen (15) mints"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

#### Read one availability ** 
```yaml
query{
  availability(id:2){
    id,
    fromTime
    toTime
    intervalMints
  }
}
```
#### Success response
```yaml
{
  "data": {
    "availability": {
      "id": "2",
      "fromTime": "2022-08-17T09:00:00+00:00",
      "toTime": "2022-08-17T05:00:00+00:00",
      "intervalMints": "Fifteen (15) mints"
    }
  }
}
```
#### Delete one availability ** 
```yaml
mutation {
  deleteAvailability(id:2) {
    success
  }
}
```
#### Success response
```yaml
{
  "data": {
    "deleteAvailability": {
      "success": true
    }
  }
}
```

#### Update one availability **
```yaml
mutation {
  updateAvailability(id:1, availabilityFrom:"2021-01-14T09:00:00", availabilityTo: "2021-01-14T05:00:00"){
    availability{
      id
      fromTime
      toTime
      intervalMints
    }
    success,
  }
}
```
#### Success response
```yaml
{
  "data": {
    "updateAvailability": {
      "availability": {
        "id": "1",
        "fromTime": "2021-01-14T09:00:00",
        "toTime": "2021-01-14T05:00:00",
        "intervalMints": "Fifteen (15) mints"
      },
      "success": true
    }
  }
}
```

#### 4. Booking Endpoint
* http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/graphql

The booking queries can be used **without** login or providing `JWT` auth token. These quries
provide reading and booking user's availabilities. 

#### Create booking
```yaml
mutation{
  createBooking(
    email: "a@a.com"
    fullName:"Demo",
    username: "admin",
    targetDate:"2021-12-23", 
    targetTime: "11:30"
    totalTime: 15,
  ){
    success,
    booking {
      id
    }
  }
}
```
#### Error no available slots
```yaml
{
  "errors": [
    {
      "message": "admin has no availability in this slot.",
      "locations": [
        {
          "line": 8,
          "column": 3
        }
      ],
      "path": [
        "createBooking"
      ]
    }
  ],
  "data": {
    "createBooking": null
  }
}
```
#### Error overlapping booking

<img width="1223" alt="Screen Shot 2021-12-24 at 3 27 06 AM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4252738/147296373-e24ae08f-a2d6-411e-8206-1e6a0e43927f.png">

```yaml
{
  "errors": [
    {
      "message": "The slot is overlapping with other bookings.",
      "locations": [
        {
          "line": 62,
          "column": 3
        }
      ],
      "path": [
        "createBooking"
      ]
    }
  ],
  "data": {
    "createBooking": null
  }
}
```
#### Success response
```yaml
{
  "data": {
    "createBooking": {
      "success": true,
      "booking": {
        "id": "1"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

#### Read appointments of specific users.
```yaml
query {
  bookingsByUser(username:"admin") {
    id
    fullName
    email
    date
    startTime
    endTime
    totalTime
  }
}

```
#### Success response
```yaml
{
  "data": {
    "bookingsByUser": [
      {
        "id": "1",
        "fullName": "Demo",
        "email": "a@a.com",
        "date": "2021-01-14",
        "startTime": "11:30:00",
        "endTime": "11:45:00"
        "totalTime": 15,
      }
    ]
  }
}
```


******
####** Protected by JWT authentication token which should be provided in the request header.
